welcome to another edition of AMA live
I'm your host Tom bill you and I'm here
to answer all of your questions and
today we are going to be talking about
the truth of money and happiness so our
first question is from Sarah Chee this
came in via the connect inbox and she
said I quit my job to start my own
business something I've always wanted to
do I'm earning less than I was earning
in my corporate job but enough to cover
my living expenses in a world where
success is typically measured by how
much money you make rather than how
happy and fulfilled you are how do you
keep the face faith whilst still being
objective in your journey all right so
here is the reality about money so the
reason that people chase it even though
I know you've heard a thousand times and
it is absolutely true money can't buy
happiness that if you're chasing money
the odds of you ending up with some
level of dissatisfaction is incredibly
high but the reason that people ignore
that and the reason that they keep
chasing it the reason that I myself live
the cliche of money can't buy happiness
is because money actually does have
power now the thing that money lets you
do the thing that gives it that power
the reason that people will chase for
ever and ever and ever is it is the
great facilitator now being the great
facilitator does not mean that it gives
you the thing that you secretly want in
your life so here's the punchline about
happiness the goal of all of this the
goal of this game of life that we're all
playing it is not money
it is not success it is entirely brain
chemistry it's entirely how you feel
about yourself when you're by yourself
it's about being deeply fulfilled it's
about being proud of who you are now
those are all for me
synonyms it's the same thing which I'm
just going to shorthand to fulfillment
the thing you're chasing is fulfillment
it's the only thing that doesn't sway
with the wind so happiness in its
typical definition is very transient so
I want to shift people over to thinking
about fulfilment fulfillment is often
born of suffering it's born of not doing
something you want to do it's born of
doing the hard things being proud of
yourself comes from that being proud of
yourself comes from working your ass off
to acquire
a set of skills that by the way in and
of themselves in acquiring it you found
that pleasurable it's something that
you're interested in you've hopefully
crafted developed built a deep passion
around and in acquiring those skills in
service of that thing that you love and
enjoy you're able to serve other people
that's it that's the truth of happiness
that's the truth of the thing that is
going to give you that sense of
fulfillment that's going to allow you to
enjoy your life money is never ever ever
in and of itself going to do that money
buys cool [__] money is able to give you
those temporary dopamine rushes of going
and shopping for something and getting
it and then it's cool but then that
coolness factor wears off very rapidly
the flipside of that using that money to
build something that you believe in that
not only empowers you but helps empower
other people that will help you develop
long lasting fulfillment so that's the
real thing but if you're doing something
that isn't making you a lot of money but
you're passionate about it you enjoy the
day-to-day and it's allowing you to
build skills that serve you and other
people I promise you if you had to
choose between the two which by the way
you don't but if you had to choose
between the two always in forever every
single time choose fulfillment
they say a smart man never learned sorry
they say a fool never learns a smart man
learns from his mistakes and a wise man
learns from the mistakes of others I beg
of you to be wise on this one even
though I couldn't be and unfortunately I
was a fool for a long time in this issue
smart finally but never wise so I chase
money it took me down a very dark path
it left me so unhappy that I literally
gave back two million dollars worth of
equity just to go be it feel alive again
so be wise learn from my mistakes learn
from the mistakes of the army of
humanity that has come before me that
said the same thing that I ignored at
the end of the day the thing that you're
going to be grateful that you pursued
was that thing that's giving you that
pleasure in the moment
makes you feel good about yourself so go
after that all right next question
TQ marimba this is on YouTube one man
talks podcast you on man talks podcasts
all right you talked about being capable
of producing the extraordinary and that
to be able to play on a world stage you
were willing to break yourself in half
what does that mean so for me it
I am literally willing to do whatever it
takes within my code of ethics to
achieve my goals so that's what I mean
by break myself in half I'm willing to
work literally Monday through Friday if
I'm awake I'm either working or working
out so to the point where I brush with
my brush my teeth with my headphones on
so that I can get the last little eeks
of the day out from the moment I wake up
I go immediately to the gym I workout
and then I immediately do my morning
routine which I've gone through so many
times and won't waste my time with it
now but I go right into that immediately
and that carries me all the way through
so like today I woke up at what 4:15 so
I wake up around that time every day
somewhere between let's say 3:00 and
5:00 that's my typical wake up window
and I'm going to work or workout from
that moment until I go to bed and I go
to bed at the same time every night
which is 9 p.m. so somewhere around
about 8:45 is when I begin my nighttime
ritual brushing my teeth and all of that
but even then I am listening to a book
or something along those lines so that
is what I mean by break myself a half
and then on the weekends by the way on a
lazy weekend I probably work five to
seven hours a day and then on a hardcore
weekend like last weekend where I was
working literally until midnight on a
Saturday I'll clock say 13 14 hours of
work that's on a weekend so that's what
I mean by break myself in half now the
whole point is that I'm building
something that I believe in I'm building
something that gives me a deep sense of
fulfillment I believe that not only am i
empowering myself and making myself
stronger and more capable of the things
that I want to do and the things that
give me joy and give me more energy than
they take but that I am doing something
that serves a lot of people that goes
way beyond me
and the not-so-secret thing I love the
puzzle of seeing if I can figure out
something that other people can't figure
out that is a deeply enjoyable pastime
of trying to improve myself to learn
enough to think of the problem in a new
enough way to challenge my own
assumptions to do all of that to be able
to see a problem in a way that nobody
else can to see a solution that nobody
else can see I love doing that so all of
this energy and effort it is in things
that give me more energy than they take
so it's just a pleasurable existence and
I don't want to hear people I don't want
people to hear in what I say that I'm
just like writing it out I tried that I
did that for six and a half years and it
was a total [__] misery so I'm not
saying that I'm saying work that hard in
service of something that you believe in
that makes you feel alive that you love
doing if you do that then breaking
yourself in half that just becomes a
metaphor for the amount of energy that
you're willing to put into the things
that you believe in so and I wish that
for everybody by the way I wish for
everybody that you could find something
that interest you enough that you'd be
willing to go down the path of gaining
mastery and developing a passion so that
you can engage so fully with that thing
that as you get into this virtuous cycle
and I think building a passion is a lot
like falling in love it is reciprocal
it is two-way if it's just one way it's
not real love if it's just you going
down the path of gaining mastery and
there's no reciprocal feeling positive
about yourself and being able to help
other people if you're not getting that
feedback you're never gonna be able to
develop a real passion and what it looks
like is as you find that thing that
interest you you go down the path of
gaining mastery you're getting better at
something that actually helps other
people so you start feeling good about
yourself and then you take that energy
and you get even better at it which
allows you to serve other people more
which makes you feel even better about
yourself which makes you want to go out
and get more skills and you get in this
feedback loop and the more skills you
get the more powerful you are the more
you're able to help other people the
better it makes you feel about yourself
which makes you hungry to get more
skills and you now get in this loop I
wish for everyone to get in that loop to
create that level of love and enjoyment
for something that you think about it
the way that I think about building this
dude
that it feeds you that when you think
about the people the lives that you're
touching like that gives you so much
energy that even if what you're doing
isn't giving you the fight the financial
rewards that you want that it's giving
you that life satisfaction of knowing
you're doing something that matters that
it has that purpose that it's feeding
your why that is the thing that I want
for everyone that is the thing that
makes me do this content that is what I
hope that you guys focus on because if
you do that then not only can we have a
massive impact on the world but you will
enjoy your life and that's the punchline
Thorg hemin we're gonna go with org hey
Tom why don't you learn during school
why don't why don't we there we go hey
Tom why don't we learn during school
that money doesn't buy happiness it is
so important to know I will give you the
real answer the people teaching you and
my heart goes out to them but the people
teaching you haven't learned the lessons
yet the people teaching you oftentimes
have only been in that environment that
went to high school that went to college
together degree to teach they went they
go in to teach the whole system is built
by people that have only existed in the
system and so literally their frame of
reference is the system to keep the
system alive to feed the system and
especially if the system gave them joy
if they loved learning and if they loved
the idea of teaching they don't want the
system to change people fear that change
and so they want to give to other people
that beautiful thing that was given to
them and they don't see that it's not
necessarily affecting everyone the way
that it affected them and the more
terrifying part is becoming a teacher oh
god this is gonna be horrible but this
is actually true becoming a teacher if
you haven't gone out and used the thing
that you're teaching in the real world
is like becoming an influencer for being
an influencer the only reason that I can
step in front of this camera and be very
confident in what I'm talking about is I
spent the last almost 20 years building
businesses not being an influencer not
being in front of the camera but
literally going from laying on the floor
of my unfurnished apartment flirting
with depression not having any idea how
I was gonna do anything with my life
feeling totally hopeless and lost and
then having to
build myself brick by brick in order to
become the person that I wanted to
become in order to become capable of
what I wanted to be capable of and now
all I'm doing is telling what I've
actually done so it's not me coming on
here telling you how to build a
following because I built the following
and I built my following by telling
people how to build the following and so
it becomes it's like really [__]
weird loop I'm telling you that in the
trenches from the bottom how I rose up
so I know it worked at least once and
that gives me the power to come on here
and give you nuance that you're not
gonna hear somewhere else and that is
why teachers usually aren't able to give
you such a different perspective because
they're still chasing the same things
they haven't learned that lesson about
money they're struggling enough that
money is still a major factor in their
life because until you get all of your
needs met until you have enough
disposable income that you're not
sweating every bill and I remember
having to choose what bills I paid
during the month until you get past that
money is an overwhelming amount of what
you think about so there's no way that
you're gonna be able to teach people
that money can't buy happiness because
let me tell you
poverty can't buy happiness either and
we have myths on both sides of the
equation people that tell you that money
is the root of all evil that's a myth
people that tell you money's gonna buy
happiness that's a myth the truth
unfortunately for the most part has to
be experienced by people that man if we
could snap our fingers and create a
world where people had to go out build
and do things for ten years and then
come back and teach and that we rewarded
people handsomely for doing so that
would fundamentally change the education
system but that is so easy to say and
pretty much impossible to do so I have
many many times said I am NOT the man to
fix the education system so take my
pontificating for what it's worth next
up Noel Alise face book how do you
suggest chasing your passion career-wise
when you have children and bills that
demand you stay the course of making a
and reliable income to survive okay so
this is brutally hard in everything I'm
about to say I want to preface by saying
you're in a super difficult situation I
don't want to cheapen that at all
I just hopefully want to give you a
slightly different perspective now when
you have kids which this is one of the
reasons I don't have kids there are
people that are impacted by your
decisions and making sure that you
provide for them and take care of them
that is that is Noble in a way that I
can't explain now having said that I
think that when people are given context
when they understand why you're doing
what you're doing
suddenly the needs that you have as a
family aren't as big as you think they
are you just have to be willing to face
scrutiny and embarrassment to shrink
your lifestyle down so I once read about
this family that sold everything bought
a boat and then sailed their kids around
the world and they were like they ranged
in age from like 12 to 6 or something so
it wasn't like oh they weren't in school
yet or something like that now
admittedly that seemed crazy dangerous
to me but pretending that there's a way
around the dangerous side of it I
thought that it was just immeasurably
cool how little they really needed to
get by and to sail around and it was
just an incredible story of cutting
their expenses to essentially nothing
and showing their kids the world
different cultures educating them on the
boat they had time to read obviously
they didn't weren't wasting any time
with social media like all of that stuff
all the things that people complain
about being these time sucks and stop
people from really discovering who they
are and discovering all these different
things they found a way to just reduce
their expenses to next to nothing so
that's gonna be step one how much can
you reduce your expenses obviously
everybody needs to be fed there should
be a certain amount of security that we
know where our meals are going to come
from we know that we have roof over our
head of some kind whether it be a boat
or a normal typical house but there are
ways to cut your expenses to the quick
now kids aren't going to like it they're
gonna squawk they're gonna complain
because they want all the things that
their friends have and all of that so I
it's super brutal but that would be
first and foremost how much can you
reduce your expenses now once you reduce
your expenses then you're gonna set
about getting six months of money in the
bank so that you know that you can live
for six months you can take care of your
kids you can make sure that they have
health care all of that I think that's
super important to your well-being
forget the kids for a second when you
have six months income saved up and you
know without another dime coming in you
could live your life exactly the way
that you're living it for six months
you're now in the driver's seat from
your job now you can go out and figure
out exactly what it is you want to do
while still having your job and spend an
hour a day everyday looking for jobs
what is your dream job what company
would it be with what's the culture that
you're looking for what do you want to
do on a day to day basis and the way
that I always tell people is ask
yourself one simple question what do you
want to learn more about than anyone
else in the world once you know the
thing you want to know more about than
anyone that's gonna be the thing that
fuels you that if you were reading about
that then you would have fun if you were
getting pushed and you had to work late
nights but you were doing that thing
learning about that thing that you would
still love it and who do you want to
serve and once you know that once you
have those things in place something you
want to learn about in a culture that
makes you feel good and you're serving
people that you really care about
serving when you have those three things
and you know that you've got the six
months savings so that if you get into
the job and it's not quite what you
wanted that you can then get out of it
and go find something else that's just
hugely important and then I am actually
not I think people think I'm a fan of
burning the ships at the shore but the
only time you should burn the ships of
the shore is when that's what you have
to do to succeed I did not do that when
we started quest we kept our software
company during the day and then yes I
took a risk by cutting my salary in 1/3
and going out and being the first one to
go full-time at Quest but even then I
had enough coming in that I knew that we
could make ends meet if we were willing
to just lock it down stay in the house
not go out not eat out things like that
get rid of one of the cars all that just
cut our expenses to the quick so that is
exactly what I would do once you have
that clarity you know you're after
you've got the six months saved you've
cut your expenses down to the quick now
you can really go look for the perfect
job and do it while you still have your
job and then when you find the perfect
thing you're able to take the risk there
it is
and you just because you don't need to
make as much money you may be able to
start at a lower rung and then work your
way up which is just the thing for me
not everybody wants to work their way up
but I'm super ambitious like that so I
would always leave myself that
opportunity alright Daniel bro damn bro
Fitness Facebook I have been watching
Amy Cuddy's TED talk about powerful body
language and how it impacts your brain
what methods have you found a lower
anxiety in a networking situation so the
thing that I have found that I use on a
routine basis is I stand upright I
breathe from my diaphragm I do the
shoulders back and I don't put my hands
in my pockets and I smile a lot and that
has been huge so in a networking
situation I adopt my goofy neutral face
which is a little something like that
and then I try to smile as much as
humanly possible and I tried to be
effervescent I tried to like when the
cameras come on and I really push my
personality out and I try to sound fun
and inviting and warm and engaging and
all of that stuff those have been this
the physical techniques that I use and
then I will also say as not a physical
technique but a very powerful technique
in networking situations that allow me
to lower my anxiety is asking questions
of other people rather than trying to
step in the spotlight myself so I find
that asking questions is a lot less
anxiety provoking than feeling like I've
got to be on and I've got to impress
people so in a networking situation I
use one tactic for impressing people and
that is I try to really be curious about
them ask them a lot of questions get
them to feel good about themselves
talking about themselves and then they
paint that feeling onto me and so just
by asking questions I find that I can
make a good impression so as the saying
goes if you want to be interesting be
interested so ask a lot of questions
Adrian cubby this is on YouTube hi Tom I
heard you talk about winning two naveen
Jane by saying that he already won by
making a lot of money do you always
associate success to making money
absolutely not
so going back to the topic of this
whole am a today is the truth about
money and happiness so I asked that
question and I use those words and I
remember thinking at the time people are
gonna think I mean this from my
perspective I'm saying I know people
looking at the VN think you've already
won dude you've already made all this
money so why do you keep pushing so I
was asking that question so people would
hear themselves their own thoughts and
the question because I knew what he was
gonna say to the answer now as they say
in law never ask a question to which you
don't already know the answer so a lot
of times when I'm doing an interview I'm
asking questions in a way that
definitely hopefully seems fresh but I
know what they're gonna answer because
I've seen so many videos on them I know
the direction that they're gonna go and
that way I can steer the interview to
give the people watching hopefully
something that is massively impactful
and gives them the takeaways that I
think that person really has to offer so
that's why I asked like that I don't
think money is success I think money's
super powerful and I think it's very
usable but it is one thing and one thing
only and that is a great facilitator so
once you know what you want once you
know you're trying to accomplish what
you know what you want to build and all
of that money is incredibly powerful but
Naveen is the perfect example he's
taking the money that he's made and he's
building companies that he thinks her
game-changing and so I knew that was
gonna be the punchline of asking him
that question is he believes that there
are these huge fundamental world
problems that needs to be solved and
Commerce's the way to solve them and so
he's gonna build these self-sustaining
economic engines but he fuels them with
his own capital so he can get them off
the ground so he can do them the way
that he wants to do them so he's not
beholden to other people on and on and
on so but money in and of itself is
while what most people call success I am
just terrifyingly consistent on what
answer to me the only thing that I care
about is how I feel about myself when
I'm by myself that is my true definition
of success
Steve Hurley YouTube hey Tom I like my
job now but the pay is very meager
should I take a job I'm not passionate
about with a kill date when I'm in a
better position financially so I'm no
longer making ends meet I'm super open
to that strategy however I will say
there's almost certainly another way to
go about it which is to find a job
that's in that zone of things that you
like in
your wheelhouse the thing you want to do
the universe of stuff that you want to
be around that pays more and it's
probably maybe not just as easy because
I'm guessing you're asking this question
because there's another job that's
already presented itself that you could
take but I'm guessing it's gonna be
almost as easy to just go out and find a
job that's in line with what you want to
do in line with what you want to get
great at that's gonna pay more and more
as you bring more and more value so I
would focus on that be in that universe
of things that you want to do but I've
got no beef if there's some unique
situation in your world where you know I
could go and I remember people back in
Tacoma used to do this all the time they
would go spend a summer in Alaska
fishing and it was a super brutal job
but they could make a ton of money doing
it and then they would come back and you
know use that money to do something else
so by all means if you've got that
opportunity I've got no hate for that
personally having done that where I
ended up chasing money in a position
that I thought was like surefire I'm
gonna make me all this money and then it
didn't end it took me years of my life
to finally realize that all right the
struggle is guaranteed the success is
not so I would much rather pursue
something that I really care about and
that's when we built quest which ended
up being way more successful but quest
was born out of me saying I'm not just
gonna do anything to make money I'm
gonna force myself to only do something
that I actually care about and care
deeply about and so I'm gonna go down
that path and hey if it allows me to
make more money amazing and I certainly
work to make sure that the foundation
was there so that it could it make me
more money that I could move up that it
could grow and be bigger but I was
chasing fulfilment so that is my
suggestion to you - Mira Benitez YouTube
I found out my definition of happiness
doesn't list any feelings it's all basic
material stuff if there was one thing I
could do to change my definition of
happiness what would that action be that
action would be to really go recursive
and go inside yourself and figure out
the times where you feel most alive and
you most feel like I want to bottle this
feeling what are those moments what is
creating that and while I'm gonna guess
that you get like a pretty rad feeling
when you buy something that you really
wanted that you see that that declines
and that there's no way for you to
sustain that whereas there gonna be
other things where it's you're learning
something new and you think whoa this is
so cool like I want to learn more about
this I want to read about this you're
losing track of time you're totally
swept up in that thing you want to talk
to your friends about it all that stuff
and here's the real thing there's no
insecurity around it now here's the
problem with money when you buy
something and you think it's cool and
you want to show it to your friends in
that moment there's a deep sense of
unease and insecurity because you know
if your friends reject it they laugh at
it they say it's not cool all of your
emotional energy and attachment to that
thing will go away instantly the reason
99 times out of 100 people want to buy
something cool is because it's going to
impact other people which now means
you're beholden to the way that they
think about it and so you have that
sense of what if they don't think this
is as cool as I do and you know that if
they don't that then yourself that
feeling of coolness will go away when
it's something that you just love when
it's something you find interesting when
it's something that you've gone deep and
I'll use music as an example so let's
say you love playing the cello everyone
else thinks of the cello is [__]
stupid but you love the cello because
the way it makes you feel when you play
it when you're able to express yourself
in a way you're not able to express
yourself in words when you write
something down or in any other way in
your life nothing makes you feel like
you're really externalizing your
internal state like the cello and so you
work and you practice and you fumble and
you get better and you work through the
things that you're not good at not so
you can impress other people that's
awesome and you love it and when people
love your music you were way into that
and that feeds you and you enjoy that
part of it but even if they didn't even
if they laughed if they laughed at you
and you felt terrible about yourself
you'd want to play the cello you'd want
to go home and be by yourself and play
this thing to really get that emotion
out of yourself that is the thing that I
hope for for people that's the thing
that you should be trying to cultivate
in your life that's what you need to
look inside and find that thing what's
that thing that when people hurt you or
you're feeling down what do you
turn to when you find that thing that's
the vein that you want to go hard down
that's the thing that you want to
cultivate in your life and when you
start turning inward and looking at that
and realizing that that's not something
money can buy that's you pouring
yourself into something that makes you
feel alive that gives you that energy
that's not beholden to what anybody else
thinks
that's the magic go after that
Jayla Ali how important is rest and how
much do you get of it I'm trying hard at
the moment to pursue my dreams but
sometimes I feel out of balance because
I lack sleep for example all right boys
and girls I'm telling you I'm just gonna
be super arrogant for a second I built a
billion-dollar business without setting
an alarm prioritize sleep I work a lot
in fact I'll take the Pepsi challenge
anybody that wants to go head to toe
with me in terms of what you get done
not just raw number of hours aimed at a
computer or whatever it is you're
supposed to be doing and performing
totally sub-optimally I'll just take the
Pepsi challenge on that I always
prioritize sleep I always prioritize my
psychological optimization so for
instance if I'm working around the clock
and this happened not too long ago I was
just working so many hours and it ended
up encompassing too many things that
took more energy than they were giving
that I started to feel anxious isn't in
fact I started to feel claustrophobic
that's exactly how I felt I wanted to
crawl out of my own skin I don't know
how to explain it it's just like ah
who's driving me nuts and I realized I
need to chill for a minute I need to
meditate I need to take an hour and go
do something that's still moving me
towards my dreams because that's my
thing but that I really enjoy and so
maybe in those moments I go read a comic
because we're building a comic book
publishing Empire so that's part of what
I need to do anyway but reading the
comic is fun I also need to meditate and
just literally breathe from my diaphragm
so get the sleep do you need that's
super critical you do not need to set an
alarm sleep as much as you need to and
by the way if you're doing things that
are exciting to you you're I know people
some of you are gonna believe me because
I hopefully I've earned the credibility
with you
up to this point and some of you're
gonna call total [__] you can ask my
wife I can set an internal alarm clock
in my mind only if I'm excited about
something or really stressed out but
that's a whole nother thing which I try
hardly to do ever but when I'm really
excited about something I can set an
internal alarm clock this morning I told
myself wake up at 4:15 what time did I
wake up boys and girls not for 14 not
for 16 I woke up at 4:15 because that
was the time that I told myself to wake
up I can usually get within 5 minutes of
what time I tell myself to wake up it
doesn't always work and if I'm tired I
don't give myself that edict I tell
myself to sleep as much as I need but
when I'm really excited about something
there's something I want to get up and
work on and I'm afraid there just won't
be enough time and it's a reasonable
amount of sleep I'll say anything north
of 5 hours I can usually get myself to
just wake up so get the sleep prioritize
cognitive optimization because then
you're efficient and efficiency is the
name of the game so sleep sleep sleep I
am NOT a guy proposing the you know set
your alarm get up at 4 a.m. no matter
what it's not me go to bed early get
your sleep
meditate getting a good peaceful calm
creative state so that you can really
crush it
Brian letting are this from YouTube Tom
I think my goal may be too big anybody
else gonna chime in on that one
I write it every day but it makes me
feel heavy daunted and terrified to
pursue it rather than excited okay
that's powerful have I chosen my goal
poorly or or do I need to man up okay
the dude Brian I love you so much for
this question in in this question is
like everything that people go through
so first of all your goal is not too big
okay
you're just not yet the person you need
to be to execute against that and that
is absolutely fine I'm not yet the
person I need to be in order to rival
Disney I know that and so every day I'm
waking up not saying am i there yet am i
there yet am i there yet I'm thinking
what's one really simple thing that I
could do right now today to learn
something that moves me down that path
or who can i partner with you know
what's the idea that I need to get other
people excited about what I'm doing so
that's super important so your dream is
never too big even if you said you want
to tear
for Mars I'm with you right that's our
boy Elon Musk is literally thinking
about that so your dream isn't too big
you just don't think about like the end
goal and let it overwhelm you which is
what is happening to you you're writing
it every day okay so you're obsessing
about that end goal that end outcome
which first of all if that end outcome
is about a thing like the thing that I
think about every day is not building a
studio to rival Disney even though
that's often what I externalize to
people what I think about internally the
thing that warms my soul is I think
about the people out there that are
extraordinary they could do something
amazing with their lives but they won't
because they don't believe in themselves
so what I think about the thing that
drives me that obsesses me and fills me
with excitement and joy to get good
enough to actually do it is helping
people develop an empowering mindset
that's my obsession the whole rival
Disney thing is a path and I think it's
the right path and I'm excited to do it
and I love it but at the end of the day
the thing that keeps me going when I'm
feeling overwhelmed is helping other
people so figure out what that thing is
that huge goal that you have why you
want it because chances are that you're
gonna be able to do it in smaller ways
along the way as well so it's not like
this you know 20-year chasm of of binary
nothingness where you're not at all
doing what you want to do and then
suddenly one day it either happens or it
doesn't like you know winning the
lottery that it's you know these
incremental steps okay so you write it
down every day start writing down the
the beautiful thing you want to bring
into the world and also even that like
you should be spending time what are you
grateful for right now thinking about
what you want to learn thinking about
things that excite you it makes you feel
heavy daunted and terrified to pursue it
okay so if it makes you feel heavy
daunted and terrified to pursue it
because you're obsessing over the end
goal it's some like traditional marker
of success money and big company
whatever and not how you want to help
people then it's just a matter of
reframing if on the other hand is
because you think you're supposed to
want that thing but you don't actually
want it and so the idea of pursuing it
and all you would have to do to get
there is just horrifying to you then yes
you've picked the wrong goal only you
can answer that question I have no idea
which of the two is true
just remember don't chase something
because people have told you that you
should want it literally just look at
what gives you more energy than it takes
what's exciting for you what's fun what
do you think about when nobody's looking
what do you do when you're like in your
default mode what do you go to reading
playing video games whatever it is like
that thing is pointing you in the
direction of the things you like sports
who knows that default thing that you go
to to recharge to enjoy to play to have
fun finding a way to make that a part of
your big grand goal is really really
important okay and then the whole notion
of do you need to man up all right
Manning up is awesome and I think that
pushing yourself to be more to do the
hard things is always always always a
good idea if you've already taken the
time to love yourself if you've taken
the time to love yourself and see
yourself as a vehicle for potential and
that the fun of life is seeing how much
of that potential you can actuate cool
then I'm down then man up then push
yourself then do the hard things but if
you haven't taken the time to love
yourself and be like hey what I love
myself for is that I am human and I am
literally wired from the ground up to be
an adaptation machine meaning if I put
stress and my self pressure and I put
myself under pressure I can grow and I
can get better and that's awesome and
that's the thing that I value in humans
and hey I am human and therefore I value
myself for having this intrinsic
potential now the weird thing to me is
that then some people get freaked out I
have this potential I'm not doing
anything with it these are not the
droids you're looking for you want to
spend your time thinking that's rad I'm
stoked that I have that potential and I
want to play and I want to have fun and
I'm not going to overly or prematurely
optimize I'm gonna find something that
means something to me and I'm gonna put
that meaning and that purpose at the
center of my life and I'm gonna pursue
that and I'm gonna man up in service of
that and I'm gonna man up and service of
doing things that I love and getting
better at them and finding joy in
pushing myself but it all has to start
from change comes from loving yourself
you don't change because you hate
yourself okay now look you've heard me
talk 80/20 right I spend 80% of my time
there and I do spend 20% of my time
anybody but 20% of my time being deeply
dissatisfied with myself but that's a
conversation for another day for right
now you need to love yourself first you
need to get out from under this
overwhelming pressure of this thing
you're trying to do just remember you
can learn anything if you put your mind
to it and you give yourself a long
enough timeline if that's something that
you love it's something that you enjoy
it's something that you want to know
more about than anybody else and you
actually enjoy the process of investing
time and energy there then go down that
path
the man anything that chips away at you
makes you feel less of yourself
makes you feel heavy daunted and
terrified we're just on the wrong path
not necessarily to the wrong place you
may have already picked the right goal
but you're on the wrong path you're
going about it the wrong way the whole
point is to enjoy your life today I like
to remind myself even though I'm trying
to live forever that I may have an
aneurysm and not finish this am a right
that that's the reality that we all live
under and when you remember that then
suddenly it becomes so important to
enjoy today so I'll give you an example
Lisa and I were taking a shower together
this morning which my wife absolutely
loves and it doesn't hurt my feelings
either and she was saying how she has
this like impulse where she starts to
feel guilty if she takes an hour off a
day now imagine that and your entire day
from the time you wake up till the time
you go to bed you feel guilty about
taking an hour off okay as much as I
preach like hey if I'm awake um either
working or I'm working out let me tell
you the second I feel like mad I don't
want to do that right now today I
wouldn't
I'm only doing that because it gives me
energy and so I was telling her like
whoa like you've got to remember to love
what you're doing and she was like yeah
I'm starting to like feel like you know
I'm spending so much time doing things
that I don't love but they've got to get
done again that doesn't make sense even
when you're trying to do something big
you've got to remember to have fun and
if you're not having fun you're doing
something wrong so if any of you need
permission here's your permission enjoy
your life please as a matter of priority
enjoy your life
nothing else matters accomplishing at
the highest level but not enjoying your
life is a waste of time
never accomplishing anything of note but
loving your life that's a win all right
Fleming V Alona I think that's about
right is there anything wrong with
taking a shortcut when there is one
available ie not using the shortcut to
complete the quest but to take it to new
heights if I can take a shortcut I will
take it every last time I'm all about
what I'm trying to bring to the world so
yeah I don't get it
doing something the hard way just
because it's hard and you feel that that
makes you tougher that doesn't make any
sense
either you actually want your goal to
come true or you don't and so I would
say absolutely take the shortcut now in
life I find if all you're doing is
asking yourself what's the least I can
get away with instead of asking what's
the most you can bear you just won't
accomplish as much as you want to
accomplish but at the end of the day
I'll take any and every shortcut that I
can because I know that I'm going
all-out every day to bring as much value
to other people as I can to optimize my
love of life and it just so happens that
for me with my personality going hard
like that is so deeply pleasurable and
makes me feel so good about myself and
creates that thing inside of me that
nobody can take away from me because I
Know Who I am
when nobody's watching I know what I'm
doing so that is the single most
important thing that you could do so
you'll have to know why you're taking
the shortcut yep man I'm all about it
Yegor okona of youtube tom logic
dictates that you should try all sorts
of things to find your passion purpose
but and start with why simon says that
it's the thing directly tied your past
childhood who do I believe man believe
what you feel so I think that there is
often a correlation between something
that you loved in your childhood or
something that was important to you or
that you encountered in your childhood
but you need to if you didn't encounter
anything like think about those people
that were like beaten their entire
childhood like some of the
they're just too heinous to even
contemplate so are they supposed to
spend their entire life in the darkness
because that's what they grew up with
[__] that
so absolutely at any time find something
that sparks your interest and go after
that thing I didn't get into
entrepreneurship until I was 26 I think
and it's become one of the deepest most
thrilling passions of my life so yeah
get after it find something that you
believe in find something that allows
you to build your skill set and serve
other people in a way that you find
incredibly meaningful whether it came
from your childhood or not is completely
irrelevant and I will leave you with one
amazing I think it's Buddhist reference
don't mistake the finger for the moon
and what that means is when somebody's
pointing at the moon don't mistake the
thing the metaphor the story that
they're telling you which is the finger
for what they're actually trying to get
you to which is the lesson the
experience that thing Simon is merely
trying to lead you on a path so that you
can find that deep sense of fulfillment
that sense of energy that wellspring of
energy that comes from having a Y from
having a mission in a purpose so if he's
trying to help you get there by saying
hey it's probably something that comes
from your childhood
that's the finger if you find that the
moon is something entirely different for
you the moon is all that matters all
right guys thank you so much for joining
me for this episode today by the way
today's episode is brought to you by the
be legendary shirt if you haven't
already got one for yourself head to
shop impact Theory comm right now we're
gonna be launching by the way a whole
new set of cool stuff in the very near
future I won't steal whilst under yet
but it's coming soon I'm super stoked on
this
we've been going hand behind the scenes
and the rest of this year is gonna be
ham central as we build towards a very
climactic into 2018 so head over to shop
that impact Theory comm right now and by
the way if you haven't signed up for the
newsletter sign up for that bad boy I
think it's pretty awesome and it's
something unlike you're not gonna get
that content anywhere else so go check
out our newsletter which is also found
at impact Theory comm alright guys if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
and it's held next time my friends be
legendary
take care
[Music]
you